not the state of Palestine is one step
closer to full un membership this after
the security Council agreed to
reconsider its
application for many years Palestine has
been trying to gain the same full
membership status currently bestowed on
193 other countries all we ask for is to
take our rightful place among the
community of
Nations to be treated as
equals equals to other nations and
States a security Council standing
committee on new member applications
made up of all 15 council members on
Monday afternoon held their first closed
door meeting to discuss the Palestinian
application but if they cannot reach an
agreement in the security Council or if
the US vetos it the membership bid fails
and that's exactly what happened in 2011
the last time palestine's bid for full
un membership got this far along in the
process it failed primarily because the
United States threatened to veto it the
US's long-standing position is that
palestine's full un membership should
only be considered at the end of a peace
process with Israel late on Monday after
the closed door meeting the US
ambassador said their position has not
changed our position is a position
that's known it hasn't changed but we
are going to continue to find a path to
uh bring a two-state solution uh to the
Palestinians that provides peace for
Israel and a state for Palestine
Palestine has long felt disenfranchised
from the UN because it has no voting
powers in the general assembly due to
its Observer status to become a full
member in the UN article four of the
charter is the guidance which says a
country must be a peaceloving state that
accepts the obligations of the charter
is able to carry out those obligations
and is willing to do so most member
states believe Palestine meets that
threshold but if the US fails to budge
on its long-standing opposition the bid
is likely doomed once again Gabriel
oando Al jazer at the United Nations in
New
York make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer